TIP! Drawing Template Construction
Products and versions covered AutoCAD, & AutoCAD Electrical
Mark Behrens, CAD administrator / contols de...
The subject of this article is a core component of AutoCAD, the drawing template, and the best practices to follow when setting one up. When this file, specified in the QNEW setting of a user's AutoCAD configuration (see options 1) has been formatted properly, any new drawing created will match company specified standards.
As the base of a drawing package, the drawing template is the enforcer of drawing standards. My experience on the CAD admin side of this, has shown that often as new users are added, they are set up under the radar. These unknown users, left unchecked, will cause issues for everyone who has to deal with their drawings throughout the design and build of entire projects.
The template must be incisive of all relevant settings necessary to conform to company standards, and should be configured carefully. This template should also be located in a networked location, which will need to be added to user's pathing options in AutoCAD (see options 2).
The failure to start a drawing with the proper protocol can lead to many issues, some of which are not obvious to those who are untrained in, or new to, CAD. Additional editing time due to data errors and drawing quality is something that is hard to explain to non CAD users (read: management). This is usually caused by files generated by cowboy CAD operators or new CAD operators. These categories of user will both fail to follow a company defined standard. When they create or edit files which will be used or modified at some time in the future by other CAD users, the problems they cause often go undetected and get multiplied unknowingly.
The company standard template and drawing properties should address several areas:
Title block layout (see options 3 & options 4)
Default layers (this becomes especially important in AutoCAD electrical) (see options 5)
Default font type (style, height & width) (see options 6)
Default OSNAP, snap and grid setup (see options 7)
Default dimension style setup (see options 8 & options 9)
Default table style (see options 10)
By predefining the above settings, users have less of a chance to create drawings that will not be consistent with company standards. Users will always have the chance to modify the above parameters in a drawing should they decide to. The only way to reduce the frequency of this happening is the establishment of an organized checking process and actively enforcing it. I will discuss briefly the benefits to each of the points noted above separately on their own in this article.
The company approved title block layout needs to be established as a foundation for the drawing template. When setting up the layout, it is important to take all potential uses of the template into account. As I create controls documentation, I incorporate multiple types of layouts into a drawing set.
The cover sheet for a drawing set will often require different information and different style than the working drawings. The layout for both the cover sheet and the working drawings should both be in the same file, on separate layers. See (options 3) for an example of how our cover sheet is set up. This layout is independent of the working drawing layout. See (options 4) for an example of our working drawings. The format takes into account the multiple types of drawings in a complete package.
The company's standard default layers to be used when producing drawings needs to be native to the template. As I use AutoCAD electrical, (options 5) shows that I have a block created that contains all of my standard wire layers and their proper names. Using AutoCAD electrical, these default layers and their naming format are especially important. They are in a block for ease of manipulation. This block, when included in a drawing, captures all the layers that I use in my schematic packages. A bonus to this is that I can insert this block into any drawing and it will import all my standard wire layers at one time. When through editing a drawing, this block, selectable as one entity, can easily be deleted and purging will remove the extra layers associated with it. I have chosen only to include wire layers, as other layers should be set independently.
TIP! When done editing a drawing package, just before final documents are printed, it is important to zoom extents and purge each drawing. I have created a command to zoom extents and execute 3 consecutive purges for this function. Multiple purges are often needed when dealing with nested blocks!
One of the most obvious ways poor quality is evident in a drawing is the use of mixed font styles. This issue becomes worse as the number of people editing a drawing increases. If a user's AutoCAD settings are not set to match company standards, the default style is (txt.shx). This is often accepted as standard just by default. Our company prefers a different style and width, as we generate our signage and device tags from data within the drawings. Many users are given computers when they start, yet not informed that AutoCAD should be configured to support company networks or drawing standards. The result is potentially as many styles and formats to drawings as there are users. The preferred company settings should be applied to the (standard) font definitions as shown in (options 6), as this is the default style in AutoCAD. Remember to select “set current” after defining the text style!
TIP! Always keep your font height set to 0. Setting this value to anything else will override changes to font height in other commands using this style!
Grid settings and snap settings are very important to consistent drawings. Grid and snap settings must be set with to work together efficiently, and also provide a benefit to the software user. Whether you use Metric or Imperial units, your grid and snap settings must match your unit choice (this may seem obvious, however is not for many new CAD users). We set our major line spacing at 1”, with the snap value set to 1/8” (options 7). When a user has their drawing zoomed to extents with a “D” size title block border, this is still a good visual delineation between snap points as the cursor is moved, while being helpful in object placement in a drawing. Setting snap spacing too close will cause the user to erroneously snap to a point they do not realize if they are using a full zoom display. I have come across drawings with snap set to 1/32”. This is not discernable as snap when zoomed out in a drawing! As some users prefer not to have their cursor width set very high, they never realize that the incorrect snap point has been used until they are well into editing a drawing.
Mechanical layouts with different dimension styles are another area in a drawing package where inconsistencies are very obvious. Having a standard as a company is a requirement. Making that standard practical and clean is important to the quality of the drawings. Poor mechanical layouts lead to errors and miscommunication that can be expensive.
The mechanical drawings that I work with are mainly enclosure and subpanel layouts. The primary user for these drawings in our in-house production department. I have set up my dimension style with them in mind, having tried to follow their preferences, yet follow accepted industry protocol. Dimension style settings should have a clean look. By that I mean, the layout details should be uniform. Arrowheads and text need to be consistent in size for legible drawings. The settings that AutoCAD defaults to as installed by our IT department, I have found to be a good start. It helps if someone with CAD experience has an input into the installation process IT allows this. I recommend that all the dimension style options being considered by an organization be put in an example drawing so they can be compared easily. Make your choice and apply the settings to your template. Our default settings are shown (Options 8) as an example.
TIP! When necessary to edit dimension size in a drawing (differently scaled title block layouts to match mechanical drawings) only the overall scale setting should be changed! This will keep a clean format regardless of sheet size (options 9)! Try to match the scale factor to the drawing sheet if possible.
Table style should be set up with consideration given to font style, as text is the basic component in both. Setting up the company specific settings in the standard table style will preset this for all users (options 10). I have not included how to details here, as each company standard may vary. At a minimum, a predetermined maximum number of rows in a table should be defined based on sheet layout size.
The company drawing template should be stored on a revision controlled network drive and locked down to all except the CAD manger.
