Bioo Scientific Releases MaxSignal® Colistin ELISA Test Kit for the Rapid Quantitation of Colistin in Meat
Posted January 19th, 2015 for Bioo Scientific
Bioo Scientific's MaxSignal Colistin ELISA Test Kit helps prevent the abuse of colistin, a last-line antibiotic, as an agricultural drug. The MaxSignal Colistin ELISA Test Kit is the only commercially available ELISA optimized for the screening of Colistin in meat samples including poultry, beef and pork.
Austin, TX, USA., January 19, 2015
(PressReleasePoint)
Bioo Scientific's MaxSignal® Colistin ELISA Test Kit is the only commercially available ELISA optimized for the screening of Colistin in meat samples including poultry, beef and pork. This kit combines a unique and proprietary colistin extraction method along with stable standards to deliver dependable, accurate, rapid, cost effective and easy colistin analysis.
Colistin is used by physicians as a drug of last resort to treat Gram-negative superbug infections. It is also used in agriculture against infectious diseases in rabbits, pigs, cattle, sheep and goats, contributing to the development of antibiotic-resistant bacterial strains. Recently the European Center for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) observed that resistance to colistin was found in 5 percent of Klebsiella pneumoniae isolates for the EU, making the use of tests such as the MaxSignal Colistin ELISA Test Kit critical to ensure that colistin does not enter the food stream, helping prevent the development of additional colistin-resistant strains of bacteria.
The MaxSignal Colistin ELISA Test Kit is the latest addition to Bioo Scientific's line of ELISA and strip tests for the detection of antibiotics, hormones and other veterinary drugs in food and feed samples. This kit is manufactured to the international quality standard ISO 9001:2008 (ISO CI#: SARA-2009-CA-0114-A).
About Bioo Scientific
As a world leader in food safety testing, Bioo Scientific is dedicated to improving the safety of the world's food and feed supply by developing accurate, affordable tools which allow companies to readily screen for microbial and industrial contaminants, natural toxins, hormones, antibiotics and other residues.
Bioo Scientific has been awarded numerous Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) grants that support innovative product development activities from agencies such as the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the National Science Foundation (NSF), and Department of Defense (DOD). The company has also been awarded the Tech Innovation Award and the Greater Austin Business Export Award highlighting its international business activities. Bioo Scientific food safety test kits are being used around the globe in agricultural settings, as well as by governmental testing agencies, to provide the high level of assurance that consumers need for their raw and processed food products.
Press Contact:
Dawn Obermoeller
7050 Burleson Rd Austin, TX 78744
512-707-8993
*****@**o**c**n**f**.com
www.biooscientific.com
Contact Dawn Obermoeller
