NETA Reaches Across Industries Looking To Advance Electrical Power Safety And Reliability
Posted July 16th, 2014 for International Electrical Testing Association
Portage, Michigan, July 16, 2014
NETA, the InterNational Electrical Testing Association, is reaching across industries to develop alliances and raise awareness about the importance of acceptance and maintenance testing of electrical power equipment and systems.
At this year's International Conference of Doble Clients, held in Boston, Massachusetts, April 6-11, 2014, NETA met its goal of building and reinforcing relationships within the power generation and transmission industry. The conference is considered one of the world's leading events for the electrical power systems industry.
"The Doble show is a big opportunity for NETA to meet new people, build new relationships and fortify existing ones," said Jayne Tanz, NETA Executive Director. "We approach this annual opportunity fully prepared to inform, educate, and inspire all attendees to follow the ANSI/NETA standards to ensure a safe and sustainable power generation and transmission industry."
Representatives from NETA Accredited Companies (including American Electrical Testing Co., Inc., Magna Electric Corporation, and Western Electrical Services, Inc.) connected with professionals involved with North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) standards development, demonstrating NETA's support for the electrical power generation and transmission industry.
NETA also joined more than 9,700 risk and insurance executives recently at the RIMS 2014 Annual Conference and Exhibition held in Denver, Colorado, from April 27 - 30, 2014, hosted by the Risk Management Society.
NETA's mission is to create electrical testing standards that promote electrical power system safety and reliability, ultimately reducing risk and liability for companies. Recognizing that insurance industry shares the same goals the association sent three representatives to the conference: Ron Widup, Shermco Industries CEO; Jean-Pierre Wolff of Applied Engineering Concepts; and Jill Howell, NETA Market Manager. NETA's focus at RIMS was to establish new alliances, advocating for electrical power systems testing and routine maintenance as a means to mitigate risk, and to explore synergies between NETA and insurance industry leaders.
The NETA representatives met with executives from a number of industry leaders in attendance, including FM Global, Hartford Steam Boiler, Chubb, Zurich, Alliant, AIG, and AON. The initial response from all parties was encouraging.
At both events, NETA invited attendees and industry leaders to preview and purchase the NETA standards for acceptance and maintenance testing of electrical power equipment and systems, as well as consult with NETA representatives.
In the coming months, NETA will also take its safety and reliability message, promoting acceptance and maintenance testing to other industry events as well, including:
2014 Petroleum and Chemical Industry Technical Conference (IEEE PCIC)
September 8 - 10, 2014 - San Francisco, CA
International Facility Management Association (IFMA) World Workplace Conference and Expo 2014
September 17 - 19, 2014 - New Orleans, LA
Rocky Mountain Electrical League (RMEL) Spring Management, Engineering, and Operations Conference
May 17, 2015 - St. Louis, MO
ABOUT NETA
NETA is an ANSI Accredited Standards Developing Organization that creates and maintains standards for electrical maintenance and acceptance testing for electrical power equipment and systems, as well as a standard that addresses the certification of electrical testing technicians. NETA is an association of leading electrical testing companies comprised of visionaries committed to advancing the industry standards for power system installation and maintenance to ensure the highest level of reliability and safety.
www.netaworld.org
