GE Software Solutions Makes It Easier to Manage Europe's Grid
Posted August 21st, 2014 for General Electric
August 21, 2014
GE's PowerOn(TM) Advantage ADMS Helps Utilities Deliver a More Productive, Efficient and Reliable Electrical Grid
Proven GE Technology Provides Immediate Access to Information Across the Network
GE Will Address Grid Congestion, Asset Optimization and Grid Resiliency at CIGRE 2014—Booth #246
ATLANTA
August 21, 2014
As Europe drives towards greater energy efficiency and increased grid complexity, GE (NYSE: GE) continues its mission to help utilities build a modern grid to meet electricity demands. Similarly, empowered consumers are driving the integration of solar, wind and electric vehicles—driving grid operators to seek new solutions to upgrade their situation's awareness.
Designed from the utilities' perspective, the latest release of GE's PowerOn(TM) Advantage Advanced Distribution Management System (ADMS) offers the region an upgrade in grid technology, providing grid operators a centralized view of the network in a modular system built on a single platform.
PowerOn Advantage ADMS is a powerful tool for utilities to manage the complexity of an active network. GE's PowerOn Advantage ADMS can provide the visualization of work processes across the grid to help optimize the network's performance. In addition, PowerOn Advantage ADMS supports the need for increased stakeholder engagement—delivering productivity, reliability and efficiency improvements to a utility's electrical grid.
“Utilities need upgraded technologies to meet higher performance targets as demanded by the growing pressure to optimize operations,” said Keith Grassi, product line leader—software solutions, GE's Digital Energy business. “Our PowerOn Advantage ADMS provides the industry with our best-in-class outage management system (OMS) and distribution management system (DMS) capabilities to meet the ongoing commitment to manage a more active network due to grid complexity.”
As situational awareness and visibility become more critical, PowerOn Advantage ADMS specifically supports grid operators through a unique and easy-to-use user interface, where data finds the user via a predefined dashboard with user-configurable widgets. PowerOn Advantage ADMS provides immediate access to information and a centralized view of the entire distribution network in real time. Through guided work pages and streamlined and robust workflows, GE's intuitive PowerOn Advantage ADMS provides the advanced situational awareness utility professionals require, helping to guide decision making during critical situations.
PowerOn Advantage's modular design enables it to be offered as a standalone OMS or DMS as well as an integrated ADMS. The upgraded technology joins GE's PowerOn platform of grid management solutions, which includes products such as its PowerOn Reliance energy management system and PowerOn Precision demand response management system. PowerOn Advantage ADMS is a part of GE's portfolio of Industrial Internet solutions, which establish a constant flow of communication between a business operation and its machines. The Industrial Internet enables big data to be converted into real-time analytical insight, improving grid reliability and efficiency. Click here to view GE's PowerOn solutions in action.
GE's Digital Energy business is a global leader in transmission and distribution solutions that manage and move power from the power plant to the consumer. Its products and services increase the reliability of electrical power networks and critical equipment for utility, industrial and large commercial customers. From protecting and optimizing assets such as generators, transmission lines and motors, to delivering analytic tools to help manage the power grid, GE's Digital Energy business delivers industry-leading technologies to solve the unique challenges of each customer. For more information, visit http://www.gedigitalenergy.com/.
About GE
GE (NYSE: GE) works on things that matter. The best people and the best technologies taking on the toughest challenges. Finding solutions in energy, health and home, transportation and finance. Building, powering, moving and curing the world. Not just imagining. Doing. GE works. For more information, visit the company's website at www.ge.com.
