Online Technical Writing: Complaint Letter made available by David McMurrey
1313 Horse Trail Rd. Buda, Texas 78610
6 June, 1996
Customer Relations/Claims Company
John Duke Manufacturing Company
1104 Sutton Drive Suite #112 Cairo, MI 45006
Dear Representative:
I am writing in regards to a Digital Multimeter (DMM) that I recentlypurchased by mail-order from your company. Because the DMM only functions partially, I am requesting repairs, another DMM with comparable features, or a refund equal to the purchase price + C.O.D. charges, and shipping and handling.
I purchased the meter for $250.00 by calling the 1-800 number listed in an advertisement. My phone order occurred on August 20th. The meter was delivered on August 23rd via UPX C.O.D. The total purchase price was $282.50. The following items were included with the DMM: one set of meter leads, one power supplycord, and one black nylon-fiber carrying case.
The DMM (Duke Model 8012A) will not register an accurate voltage or current reading. The other features function exactly as intended, and the fuse that protects the AC circuitry is in good operating condition. However, when a regulated AC voltage or current is applied to the meter leads, the only reading displayed is a low negative value. This is true whether the function switch is set to measure either AC voltage or current.
When I received the DMM, I inspected the packaging in which the meter was shipped, and there was no evidence of damage. Styrofoam inserts were used to protect the meter from any shock during the shipping process. Because I saw no loose componentsupon inspection of the primary fuse, I am led to believe the problem somehow occurred during manufacture. No doubt, there is a temporary malfunction that can easily be fixed.
Your prompt attention and response would be greatly appreciated as I intend to use the meter in conjunction with my job.
Sincerely, Terry Ward
Enclosed:
1 Duke 8012A DMM, Lot #3308-WIC4
1 Set of Meter Leads
1 Power Supply Cord
1 Black Nylon-fiber carrying case
1 Purchase Receipt
Original Packaging
