Morrison Property Dismissed From Lawsuit
Posted June 13th, 2007 for Pacific Booker Minerals
Vancouver, BC, June 13, 2007:
The company wishes to announce that the application by the optionors of the Hearne Hill property to include the company's Morrison property as part of their claim has been dismissed by the Supreme Court of British Columbia.
The company is vigorously defending the lawsuit respecting the Hearne Hill property and is proceeding to have the matter set for trial at the earliest opportunity.
The company continues to proceed with development of the Morrison property including the completion of a feasibility study.
The Hearne Hill property was previously explored by the company from May of 1993 until October of 1997 and 142 holes were drilled totaling 33,493 meters, however, it was determined that the Hearne Hill deposit was uneconomic.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Greg Anderson
Director and President
No regulatory authority has approved or disapproved the information contained in this news release. This release includes certain statements that may be deemed "forward-looking statements". All statements in this release, other than statements of historical facts, that address future production, reserve potential, exploration drilling, exploitation activities and events or developments that the Company expects are forward-looking statements. Although the Company believes the expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements include market prices, exploration successes, continued availability of capital and financing, general economic, market or business conditions. Investors are cautioned that any such statements are not guarantees of future performance and that actual results or developments may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors
The United States Securities and Exchange Commission permits U.S. mining companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only those mineral deposits that a company can economically and legally extract or produce. We use certain terms on this website (or press release), such as "measured,'' "indicated," and "inferred" "resources," that the SEC guidelines strictly prohibit U.S. registered companies from including in their filings with the SEC. U.S. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in our Form 20- F, File No. 0-51453, which may be secured from us, or from the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov/edgar.shtml
