Building contractor renewal
This page is for:
Builder
Check your inbox, not your post box: Courtesy renewal notices are now sent by email. Further information at dmirs.wa.gov.au/LSupdate.
Financial capacity
The Building Services (Registration) Act 2011 requires the board to be satisfied that a building service contractor in their class of registration meets the prescribed financial requirements.
The prescribed requirements for each class of building service are set out in the renewal form.
All contractors must answer questions about their financial capacity. Building and building surveying contractors must also provide supporting documents as detailed on the application forms as evidence of financial capacity.
Fees and payments
Payment of the fee must accompany the renewal form. Fees can be paid by post or in person. Acceptable payment methods are cheque, money order, credit card, cash or EFTPOS. Please note that online payment is NOT available for renewal fees. Details of the current fees can be found here.
Forms
Contractor only
Individual – Form 52
Company – Form 53
Partnership – Form 54
Practitioner and contractor
Use the following two forms:
Practitioner – Form 51
Contractor – Form 52
Lodging your application
In person
Monday to Friday, 8.30am–5.00pm
Building and Energy
Level 1, Mason Bird Building
303 Sevenoaks Street Cannington
By post
Registration renewal
Locked Bag 100
East Perth WA 6892
Late applications
Late applications may be lodged within six months after the expiry date of a registration but you must first write a letter giving reasons for the delay. You can use the late application form for this purpose. If the board accepts your reasons, you are then required to complete a renewal application form and pay the required fee.
If the board does not accept your reasons, you may not apply to renew your registration, but you may apply for a new registration. The board has particular forms to assist applicants applying for a new registration within three years of a former registration expiry date.
It is recommended that you lodge your renewal application before your registration expires to avoid the inconvenience of a late application or a new registration. If you have difficulty submitting your complete renewal application on time, please submit an incomplete renewal application before the expiry date. Contact the department for further assistance on 1300 489 099.
For more information, please refer to the board's policy on late applications (renewals).
Share this page:
Last modified: Wednesday, March 11, 2020 - 09:44
